[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: So push,
all you're gonna do is,
you're just gonna add on to the end,
right?
So this one's pretty easy, so
you're gonna say this.data,
this.length, = value, right?
That's just gonna add it
straight on to the end,
and then you're gonna increase length,
right?
And that's it.
>> Brian Holt: And
that's all you need to do for push.
Something worth mentioning that we're
also not worrying about here, when you're
allocating memory, you have to allocate
blocks of memory at a time, right?
So typically, you wouldn't just say,
give me 5 spaces,
probably what you'd say is,
give me 200 spaces.
And then you can start filling
those up and then once those start
getting a little too filled, then you'll
say okay, give me 400 blocks, right?
That's usually the way that
you're working with memory.
Again, we're in a garbage collected
language that we don't have to worry about
blocks of memory,
like we have no concept of it.
But that would be something you would
check for here as well as in push cuz
you're adding things on there you would
wanna possibly allocate more memory here.
Okay, pop, remember, pop has to give
you back what you asked for as well.
So you're gonna say this.data,
>> Brian Holt: Of this.length-1, right?
So that's gonna be the last
thing in the array, and
then you can do this a couple ways,
I choose to just use
the delete key word at this.data,
this.length-1.
Some people don't even know that
deletes a keyword in JavaScript,
that actually works.
It does, you just don't happen
to need to use it very much.
Then you'll say this.length--
cuz you made it smaller.
And you're going to return
whatever you popped.
I guess we should be
looking at it from solving.
>> Brian Holt: What did I do here?
>> Brian Holt: Returns,
yep, return, thank you.
Okay, so that gives me push and pop,
right, so those unit tests are passing.
>> Brian Holt: So let's do get.
This is the easiest one,
this.data[index].
>> Speaker 2: We've got
a question related to delete.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: Mark M is asking,
for pop, can we just reuse the delete
function that we're going to write?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you could.
Yep, you totally could.
>> Brian Holt: That's probably even smart,
it's good code reuse.
So, we'll even do that here in just a sec,
so
let's do delete,
>> Brian Holt: const ans,
answer, whatever you wanna call that,
return value it's called.
Anything I know I'm gonna return, I always
just call it answer because why not?
this,
>> Brian Holt: .data[index], right?
And then we're gonna do our collapseTo
here, this._collapseTo(index).
And then return ans;, okay?
Then let's do collapseTo.
So, here, we're just going to let i = 0.
>> Brian Holt: Sorry,
let i = index, rather,
i < this.length; i++.
>> Brian Holt: this.data[i]
= this.data[i+1], so
basically, we're moving everything over 1,
right?
That's the basic idea here.
We're going delete the end.
>> Brian Holt: this.data[this.length-1],
right?
And then we're gonna do a document here.
>> Brian Holt: And
that passes all of our tests.
So to someone's point earlier,
I forgot what his name is,
>> Brian Holt: If you wanted to do it,
you could do pop this way, which would
be return this.pop(this.length-1), right?
>> Brian Holt: Or
is it the cell length, no.
Sorry, I called it self.
Good job, Ryan, delete.
>> Brian Holt: And
that would work as well.
So if you wanna reuse
your code there as well.
>> Brian Holt: Nice.
>> Brian Holt: Any
questions about array list?
>> Brian Holt: So,
the primary thing to garner from
this [COUGH] is that delete is expensive,
right?
That shifting everything over in memory to
make sure that everything is in the right
place when you go for a get is expensive.
So if you need a data
structure that you need to be
able to delete from a lot,
that's not a good idea.
However, if you don't delete very much and
all you need to do is be able to get super
fast, this is the best, like you can't
beat this because you essentially know
exactly where it's gonna be in memory.
And that's really powerful.
Trade-offs, right?
I keep saying that word over and
over again, you need to make trade-offs,
you need to analyze the problem
that you're getting at.
And you need to figure out,
do I need to delete a lot?
Do I need to get a lot?
Do I need to do both of them a lot?
That's what you need to decide.
So we're going to look at
the other side of the coin now,
which is linked lists,
which have super easy deletes.
However, gets end up being really
expensive with linked lists.
So if you need to be reading a lot
from a linked list, kinda suck, but
if you need to be able to delete a bunch
or add a bunch of stuff in the middle,
then linked lists are awesome.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: There is
a question from Jan Heine.
Why do you introduce the helper
function in the delete?
>> Brian Holt: I like to keep my
methods as single purpose as possible.
This makes this collapse to now testable,
so if I were to go out and
write unit tests for my collapseTo method,
I could make sure that just that
piece is working correctly.
And so now, if my delete fails, at least I
can be assured that my collapseTo is not
working and now it's multipurpose, right?
You could also gentle purpose this.
We don't do insert into, so if I wanted
to add another value at index two and
your length is ten, you could also
make that instead of being able
to just collapse,
you could also make it expand as well.
And that would general purpose that
method to be able to do that, or
you could, rather.
So I use helper functions basically.
One, cuz they're testable, two, cuz
they're smaller and easier to understand.
Just good code separation, in my opinion.